SSH Protocol

What is the Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol?
  SSH provides a way for a user to basically remote into another computer in a way that is more secure than RDP for instance.

What are the typical uses of the SSH protocol?
  As shown this can be used to shutdown a computer to reboot or to be able to push an update to a user comp as an admin.

How does the SSH protocol work?
  It utilizes port 22 in order to create a secure connection between the two devices.

How is the data kept safe when transmitted between the SSH client and server?
  It is Multiplexes the encrypted tunnel into multiple logical communications channels- 
Per: T. Ylonen; C. Lonvick (January 2006). 
The Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Architecture. 
IETF Trust. doi:10.17487/RFC4251. RFC 4251.

What is SFTP?
  Secure File Transfer Protocol- Like FTP is used to transfer large files but differs in that it uses SSH security protocols.

What is RDP? And how to use it
  RDP is Windows standard Remote Desktop Protocol and we can use this by opening the program Remote Desktop Connection and securing the UN,PW and IP from the host computer 
(one we are remoting into) we can log into the host computer and be in the environment of that computer so even if you are on windows logging into
a Linux system you will have the desktop of the Linux system as if you were sitting in front of the computer.

What is Windows Remote Desktop Connection?
  This is the method of utilizing the Remote Desktop Protocol through a Windows system and securing a connection with a host system.
  
What is RDP?
  RDP is Windows standard Remote Desktop Protocol and we can use this by opening the program Remote Desktop Connection and securing the UN,PW and IP from the host computer 
(one we are remoting into) we can log into the host computer and be in the environment of that computer so even if you are on windows logging into
a Linux system you will have the desktop of the Linux system as if you were sitting in front of the computer.

What is the RDP port number?
  Port 3389 is the port used by default for RDP. 
